More information at http://forum.kalypsomedia.com/forumdisplay.php?fid=34

Below you will find a FAQ and the most important information about the modding files. 
For a better understanding we left some notes in every file.

For those who haven't got any experience with modding, a few more details:

F: What is 'modding'?
A: 'Modding' comes from, 'to modify' and is related to the field of computer games on the modification of data / parameters that influence the game behavior.

F: What do I need to know specifically 'Patrician IV (Road)'-modding?
A: The economic system of 'P IV' is stable without any changes. If you change some parameters in the *.ini-files, it could lead to an imbalance in the economic system (unfortunately, sometimes you notice this in the late game),
but you can restore the original state by overwriting the edited files with the original files.

F: What files are available and what can I do with them?
A: There are 51 *.ini-files you can edit with any text editor:
expedition.ini – Mediterranean
gameplay.ini – reputation, difficulty, game speed, date, ect. 
highway.ini – roads and treks
playerdata.ini – e.g. ranking system
seabattle.ini – sea battle
seamapdata.ini – sea map
shipdata.ini – ships
townbattle.ini – town battle
townlist.ini – cities and productions
tradesystem.ini – trading system, goods, productions, building, ect.
townmap00.ini until townmap39.ini – (Caution! Editing could cause crashes!) positioning of buildings, streets (invisible too), ect.
townpos.ini – cities

Q: How to install?
A: Go to your 'Patrician IV - installation directory and unzip the files, so that a folder named 'ini' appears.

Q: Oh no… I think I've caused some critical behavior by editing those files!?! What to do now?
A: Easy, just overwrite the edited files with the original data.

Q: Can I change the optic of a building/ship/ect.?
A: No. Assets can't be edited.

Q: Is there a possibility to change texts like the chronic log/the names of cities/ect.?
A: No, that not possible by editing *.ini-files.

Q: Can I add some more goods/icons?
A: No, not possible either.

Q: Are changes on that *.ini-files on-the-fly or do I have to restart the game?
A: Restart the game.

Q: Is it possible to add new roads? Is it possible to get all roads at the beginning of a new game?
A: It is not possible to get all roads at the beginning of a new game. Editing/Adding new roads is not that easy, but there will be a tutorial in our board.

Q: Can I add new cities?
A: Yes, with limitations (max. 2 new cities), but it's not that easy either. A tutorial will be at the Kalypso-board.

Q: Can I add a third commodity to my production chains?
A: Yes, but it cannot be displayed (remains hidden).

Q: Is the interface editable?
A: No, it is not.

Q: How can I assure that my changes will not affect the late game in a negative way?
A: You can simulate what else would be done in many ingame-years. You can edit the rank system and the game speed in order to stimulate growth and the AI?? (not recommendable for a 'normal' game). 